# PYGAME BATTLE SIMULATOR

#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/09MzRGdCa5g?si=fcBE0iJBn_7A61JX
#### Description:

The RPG Undertale is one of my favorite games of all times.

I always loved everything about the game, but I really love its combat system. It is so different from every other game i've ever played and it is so innovative that I could never help but wonder how Toby Fox made that system.
So, when I was asked to do a final project for the course, I decided to propose a challenge to myself: remake the Undertale battle system from scratch.

During my ventures in the world of coding, I became really interested in the Python language, and as I was searching more and more about Python, I came across Pygame, a library used to create games in Python. I discovered it with some friends when we were looking for a way to make games on our own. So, i quickly decided to learn how to properly use Pygame, and create my own games with it. And I was really interested because I am a big fan of video games.

Even if CS50's course doesn't talk about Pygme, I decided to use it in my final project, since I like it so much. I asked ddb, CS50's rubber duck AI, and my good friend and helper during this course, if I could use Pygame in this project, and it said I coud, so I did it. And also decided to use Pygame in this project to make it something different from other possible projects and to show that I am learning other things and using other tools related to coding.

Now, I am going to explain how my code actually works.

First, I initialize pygame and the pygame font, then I set my width and height values for the screen, as well as some other variables to get coordinates to get to a place like the center of the screen and to get the color black. Then, I set the images for the arrows that the player has to avoid and the image of the "you died" message that appears when... well, you lose all your lives and die in the game. I also set the lives to 5 and the difficulty to 1. Then I set the screen display using the height and width values.

After all of that, I initialize the while True loop, that actually makes the game work. Inside of this loop, I set the maximum framerate to 60 and set the text that says how many lives there are left. Then I wrote the code that ensures that if the type of event is "quit", that being if the player clicks the "x" on the top-right corner of the screen, the game stops and the window closes. Then I make sure the player actually moves up if the "w" key is being pressed, down if the "s" key is being pressed, left if the "a" key is being pressed and right if the "d" key is being pressed. Of course, it all happens only if the player has more than 0 lives. After that, i make four rectangles be drawn, to make the box where the player can move. Also, the player can only move if its coordinates are inside of this box. Then, i make the four arrows be drawn, each one on each side of the box and pointing to the opposite direction, facing the player's icon. I also make four bigger black rectanges be drawn to cover the arrows and make the arrows appear to be coming from nowhere. The arrows move because on each loop, their coordinates are updated. Then, I made the player icon appear, and it is a little red heart, similar to Undertale. After that, I get rectangles that are the size of the arrows and the size of the player's heart, then I ensure that if an arrow rectangle collides with the heart rectangle, the player loses a live and the arrow re-appears randomly outside of the box, behind its black rectangle, because its coordinates are updated. I also made a system, using a variable called "gambiarra", that ensures that when the arrows pass throught the player but the player dodges them, a variable called "dificuldade", or difficulty, updates its value, and its value gets increased. It also happens when an arrow hits the player. This variable is responsible for multiplying the values of the coordinates of the arrows, making them move faster towards the player. If this variable is lower than 2, it gets increased by 0.25. So there are four levels of difficulty, until the variable is equals to 2. If the player's lives are equal to 0, a giant black rectangle appears on the screen, covering the white box that was in the screen before, then a message appears on the screen, saying that the player died. Also, the player's icon changes, and becomes a broken heart instead of a normal heart. Also, a message appears on the bottom of the screen saying: "Press SPACE to try again". If the player presses the spacebar, then the game starts again, the lives are set to 5 again, the difficulty is set to 1 again and the player's icon goes back to where it was when the game started.

The game doesn't seem to work on the cs50.dev codespace, because pygame has to create a new window to work. But of course it works on the normal VSCode.

This was my final project, the "Pygame Battle Simulator", a game that can be used to improve the players reflexes and motor coordination, made using Python's library "pygame", and based on the combat system of the game "Undertale".

I hope you liked it!
